# Towards Efficient Matching of Regexes with Backreferences using Register Set Automata

This is an artifact reproducing the experimental results of the above paper. 

## Getting Started

1. Import the rsaregex-artifact.ova file into a VM player.

We used VirtualBox (https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). To import the VM in VirtualBox, File -> Import Appliance -> select the .ova file.

2. Start the VM, log in, and open xterm (pinned to the dash).

username: artifact

password: artifact

3. Enter the directory `/home/artifact/rsaregex-artifact` with `cd rsaregex-artifact`.

4. Run the smoke test experiments by running `./run-very-short.sh`.

After the script finishes running, the output can be found in `./experiments/short-run-results.txt`. This also generates scatterplots comparing our tool to the other tools. They can be found in the `experiments` directory as `vs_*.pdf`.

The contents of the `short-run-results.txt` file should look similar to this:

```
time:  2026-03-17 19:46:01.133194
# of attacks: 9
| Tool        |   < 1 s |   1--5 s |   5--10 s |   10--50 s |   50--100 s |   > 100 s (TOs) |   Errors |   > 1 s |
|-------------|---------|----------|-----------|------------|-------------|-----------------|----------|---------|
| rsaregexMat |       9 |        0 |         0 |          0 |           0 |               0 |        0 |       0 |
| grep        |       9 |        0 |         0 |          0 |           0 |               0 |        0 |       0 |
| re          |       8 |        0 |         1 |          0 |           0 |               0 |        0 |       1 |
| pcre2       |       9 |        0 |         0 |          0 |           0 |               0 |        0 |       0 |
| js          |       7 |        0 |         0 |          0 |           0 |               0 |        2 |       0 |
| java        |       6 |        0 |         0 |          0 |           0 |               0 |        3 |       0 |
| net         |       6 |        0 |         0 |          1 |           0 |               0 |        2 |       1 |
| method      |      mean |   median |   std. dev |
|-------------|-----------|----------|------------|
| rsaregexMat | 0.216272  | 0.196367 | 0.111951   |
| grep        | 0.0244444 | 0.01     | 0.0433333  |
| re          | 0.747778  | 0.01     | 2.09885    |
| pcre2       | 0.02      | 0.01     | 0.03       |
| js          | 0.144286  | 0.03     | 0.311226   |
| java        | 0.0566667 | 0.055    | 0.00816497 |
| net         | 1.82143   | 0.03     | 4.66514    |
```

## Full experiment reproduction

To reproduce the full experimental results, simply run the `./run-experiments-full.sh` script (from the `rsaregex-artifact` directory).
This should take about 10 hours in total.

After the script finishes, `experiments/evaluation-results.txt` will contain a textual table as in the paper (Table 1), and pdf scatterplots are generated comparing our tool to all the other tools (stored in `experiments/vs_TOOL.pdf`) (Fig. 6).

Note that this overwrites the scatterplots from the previous section.

## Artifact structure
The directories `packages` and `pi-packages` contain the deb and pip packages necessary for the artifact to run. The directory `tools-install-files` contains the sources for the the tools that our approach was compared against, it also contains shell scripts that install the tools (`install-*.sh`). The directory `rsaregex` is the python package for our tool.

The `experiments` directory contains the `pycobench` and `pyco_proc` scripts
(see https://github.com/VeriFIT/pycobench) for benchmark running and processing results respectively. The file `config.yaml` tells `pycobench` which tools to run and with which arguments. It also contains the `run-measurements.sh`, `run-very-short.sh`, and `eval.py` scripts. The `run-measurements.sh` script calls `pycobench` with correct arguments to reproduce the results, and `run-very-short.sh` does the same with just a few regexes. The `eval.py` script generates the tables and scatterplots from the paper (provided `.csv` files of results already exist).

Inside the `experiments` directory are the directories `inputs`, `matchers`, and `results`.
The `inputs` directory contains json files with regexes and malicious inputs, as well as text files labeled with `.input` which contain line numbers to be fed to the benchmarking script. The `matchers` directory contains `*-wrap.py` files which are called by the benchmarking script. The directory also contains source files for minimal matchers in their respective languages (java, js, .NET) and scripts that compile them if necessary (`compile-java.sh`, `compile-dotnet.sh`).
The `results` folder contains the script `create-csvs.sh` that simply calls `pyco_proc` with the proper arguments after running the benchmarks to generate `.csv` files from the results generated by `pycobench`. The `pycobench` results are by default stored in the files `(lf | rengar).output` in the `results` directory.

Note that running ANY experiment overwrites the results stored in `results/(lf | rengar).(output | csv)`.

## Installation on a fresh VM
This section provides a guide on how to make the artifact work on a VM without the tools preinstalled.
We suggest avoiding running this outside a VM, since the tools are installed system-wide.

The installation assumes that `make` and `gcc` are installed already on the machine.

The following commands install and compile tools and packages necessary for the experiments and their evaluation:

```shell
cd rsaregex-artifact
./install.sh
```

Requires sudo password to be filled in.

